Hi, and welcome back.
In this video we are going to be looking at some code
we wrote a few videos ago and see if we can reuse it
for what we've got here.
The BookParser we want to create.
This AllBooksPage that we made in the last video
takes in the entire HTML content
and builds a BeautifulSoup object
so that we can then search in it.
Then it's got a books property that searches for our locator
and then passes each tag it finds into our BookParser.
We mentioned that we wrote a similar BookParser earlier on
so let's have a look at it, I'm just going to bring it in
from my other screen just so you can see it.
We wrote this parsed item class earlier on in this section
which took the entire page content
and built a BeautifulSoup object.
And then it had a few properties like name, link, price
and so forth that used self.soup
in order to find something inside this page.
And as you can see it used sort of some locators
and it then selected things
and it went on to extract the title
and the link and so forth from different things.
What you may not have noticed is that the
content of the HTML that we
looked at earlier on in the section
is actually the same content that's going to come in
to our BookParser in our other project.
We've got here the article with class product_pod,
we've got the <p> star-rating
we've got an h3 with an a tag inside
you know, it's the same thing
we're going to get essentially the entirety of this thing
into our BookParser, so we can pretty much reuse
everything that we've got here.
Except, instead of receiving the page content,
our BookParser is going to receive the tag,
which is already a BeautifulSoup object.
So, lets go ahead and copy this
into a new class, I'm going back here to my project
I've moved the parsed item we wrote earlier on
in this section to another screen.
We're going to right-click on to our parser's project
on to our parser's package, sorry,
and create our BookParser.
Okay?
Then we're going to copy the parsed item
and I'm just going to copy it
and then we're going to make a few changes.
So I'm going to copy the parsed item here
and I'm going to rename it to BookParser
and then we are going to make a few changes.
We're going to first of all import the locators,
so we're going to do from locators.book_locators import
BookLocators and then we're going to replace all instances
of the ParsedItemLocators that we no longer need
for these BookLocators.
Notice how previously we already dealt with using
regular expressions to get the price out
and things like that, so we're going to review that quickly
but we're not going to go into too much detail
as to how that works, because we've already seen that.
And instead of the pages we've mentioned earlier,
we're now going to get a sort of parent element.
And we no longer need to use BeautifulSoup here
because the parent is already a BeautifulSoup object.
Whenever you find something with BeautifulSoup
the result of finding that is a
BeautifulSoup object that you can search on so you can
potentially find a specific object and then use that object
to find other things and so forth
so that's quite nice.
I don't like self.soup as a name, I'm going to call it
self.parent just so it's a bit more explicit
where we're searching, we're not searching on the entire
sort of soup of the page, that's what it normally means
we're searching on a specific parent of this book.
We're then going to follow up that page by allowing
a couple of lines there and we're going to import re
of course, to do our searching here for the price.
Okay.
So, once again, let's review exactly what's going on here.
We have, first of all, our name property.
That's going to use the BookLocators.NAME_LOCATOR
to select one particular element to follow
matching that locator and then
extracting the title attribute of that.
Okay.
The link is going to be used, that locator again
is going to find one and it's going to extract
the href attribute of that, so notice how
both the name and the link are finding the same tag
and that tag happens to have two attributes.
Title, which is the title of the book
and href, which is the link,
the link that takes us to the book page
with some more details and things like that.
Just in case you were interested.
The price is then going to find that <p> tag
that has the price in this format
and it's going to extract it.
The assumption here is that there's
always going to be a # symbol in front
and that there's always going to be
some sort of period in the middle.
That's what this regular expression syntax means,
0-9 is a range and we're getting at least 1 of these,
and more if there are more, the dot in the middle
and then 0-9+.
This is probably not going to be
any more than two numbers at the end
but, you know it could be more
if they decide to do something weird.
Then we're going to search and that's going to give us
two groups, one group that matches
the entirety of the string,
another group that matches whatever is in the brackets.
That's the group we're interested in because whatever is
in the brackets is going to be essentially this:
51.77 as a string.
And then we use the float function to turn this into
a float that will look like that.
We can then use that to do things like sorting,
if we want to find the cheapest books, for example.
Finally, the rating is going to find that <p> tag
with a rating locator and it is going to select it
it's going to get the class attribute from it
that contains these two attributes,
star-rating and also a word
representing the number of stars in the book
so that could be four, it could be three, it could be two.
Then we're going to get each of the classes in here
but only if they're not equal to the star-rating class.
So, presumably, that's going to be a list of
a single item which is this string three,
and we're going to return that very first item.
Okay?
I also mentioned earlier on in the course that you could
use a filter function here if you prefer,
that's something you can do as well.
Now, something that I'm not a big fan of is returning
this string three as a rating.
I'd much rather return a number
representing the number of stars it's got,
just because when you're working with numbers
it's much easier to do sorting,
and if we wanted to find, for example
all the books that are five stars
or all the books that are over four stars,
it's going to be easier if we've got a number
as opposed to a string, sorting with strings is not so easy.
So, what we're going to do is we are going to go to the top
of the BookParser and we're going to create a static
or class property, which is going to be called RATINGS.
And any class property, all that means is that
it doesn't live inside itself
so it's not like self.ratings
it lives inside the class, so you cannot change it
by doing self.ratings equals something else
and we'll access it by doing BookParser.RATINGS
and this is going to be just what you'd expect
one matches to one, two to two,
three to three,
four to four and five to five.
Okay, now we've defined this class property
I'm going to show you how to use it and just, just now.
And all this does is a dictionary that
if you look for the key one,
it's going to give you the number one.
And so forth for every other number.
Now, instead of returning rating_classes[0],
what we can return is something else.
We can say rating is,
or rating_number is
BookParser.RATINGS, this is how you access
the RATINGS thing inside BookParser.
The same way you would access a particular function
and BookParser.RATINGS and then
in here, we're going to do
.get rating_classes[0].
And we're going to return rating_number.
So this is a dictionary BookParser.RATINGS, the get method
of dictionary is going to return the value associated with
whatever it is we pass it, so if this is the string three,
it's going to go up to the dictionary
and give us the number three.
But if it does not find anything with this class in the
dictionary, it's not going to return a key error,
instead, it's going to return none, okay.
So this is None if not found.
Yep.
If you wanted to return something else, other than none``
you can do that by adding another argument to the get method
so you can, say for example, nine.
Which it would be a pretty silly thing to do, I think
but if the rating class that we passed in is not found
in our BookParser.RATINGS dictionary, then it will
return nine, or it could return like, minus one, or
you know, it can return hello or whatever you want.
And if it makes it easier
you can use it as a named argument here and
you can say default is nine
and this is what gets returned
if this was not found in the dictionary.
Because I'm not really thinking that we're
not going to be able to find anything in the dictionary
we're going to leave it as none for the default
but we'll see what happens as we scrape the side
we will see if we find anything weird.
And that's it.
We have now been able to create our BookParser.
We can go back to our AllBooksPage
and make sure to import it
so from parsers.book_parser import BookParser
and as soon as we pass in the page content to this page
we'll be able to access the books property
which is going to find all the li tags
and pass them into the BookParser.
Then we'll have a list of BookParser objects and
for each object we'll be able to do things like
access the name property or the link and so forth.
Hopefully this makes sense, let's go over to
the next video and we're going to be writing
a little bit of code in our app.py
just to use this page and extract some information.
I'll see you in the next video.